[Music]
[Applause]
so I've been sat here thinking about
quitting YouTube the title is not
clickbait I'm literally thinking I want
to quit [ __ ] YouTube and a lot of you
will have noticed changes on my channel
recently changing the name from Jovi
you
that's my it's not in a mean-spirited
way that I'd like to say on the record
that in large part Joe vegans analysis
of his own situation as he makes his
swan song exit from the digital
demi-monde
of aspiring vegan activist here on
YouTube his analysis of his situation is
remarkably similar to what my analysis
of his situation was a few weeks ago or
even a few months ago and I did try to
talk to him about this stuff privately
and there were some comments some
back-and-forth when he and I publicly
and I feel he was a little bit dishonest
and disgraceful in what he had to say
about me and how he represented or
misrepresented my position that debate
but let's leave that aside as he's now
resolved to quit forever his former
mission to satirize
the digital vegan demi-monde let me read
a comment that Joe made I believe
yesterday depending on what time's us
this a typewritten comment that Joe made
here on YouTube Joe says thanks to the
video Andrew he's responding to a guy
named Andrew Margot Marlowe really
appreciate it mate when you were running
a drama channel in any genre the hate
you are receiving is not necessarily
hate the minority is just senseless bias
hate but the majority is people of sound
mind trying to tell you that what you
are doing is wrong some very so just
pause this very interesting comment from
Joe vegan I do not know if he feels that
I'm in that category of people of sound
mind trying to tell him that what he was
doing is wrong but that's how I'd
consider myself and I didn't generalize
um I I don't think everything he did is
wrong I gave him a very balanced and I
wrote him a lot of positive things to
which he completely ignored in his
responses that might be the kind of guy
he is also some people are like that you
know some people if you write them a
letter and it has five points of
criticism and five points of praise they
only hear the criticism but I was quite
balanced but I did point out honestly
what things he was doing that were wrong
um and I also praised him for the things
I thought he was doing right or that I
thought he excelled at I did do both so
I continued reading Joe's comment about
himself leaching off other people's
content and criticizing people as if you
are some sort
of authority figure is a horrible thing
to do period yeah okay pause e and
that's an interesting comment from Joe
there are two halves to that I think the
leaching aspect is maybe one of the more
interesting that people don't seem to
reflect on a talked about as much it is
weird to me that so many of the channels
that say they hate me
actually our derivative of me like their
videos they rely on people like me to
create real content and then they leach
off my content they produce something
derivative there a secondary source and
I'm a primary source that is a very
strange dynamic he says and if we're
being totally honest I got carried away
with the subs and views failing to
realize that I was being just as bad as
the narcissistic sociopath pathological
lying criminals who do the same things
period so you see how he got a subtle
insult where this is subtle if you
wanted you might not catch it but he had
an insult directed towards his
competitors here on YouTube very subtly
worked into that sentence um but the
first half the sense is that he got
carried away with the subs in the views
and I agree that was part of my analysis
of what his problem was
and I said that to him publicly as well
as you privately
and not in a stupid Hershell away I
thought he really didn't understand how
pandering to your audience is a problem
and how it perverts your whole mission
of what you're doing here on on YouTube
whether you think of that in terms of
vegan activism or just in terms of
entertainment because even as an
entertainer there are really hard
questions of the ethics of being an
entertainer of your creative process and
whether you how you engage your audience
how you confront your audience's
expectations how you subvert their
expectations how you play with what the
audience is expecting you to do then you
don't just pander to your audience you
don't just do whatever it takes to get
more views and more subs and in his case
from the one example just to keep it
simple I do not think Joe vegans should
have pretended that he didn't know the
reality of my legal case at a time when
he did and that was something it's just
a very simple example of pandered
audiences his explanation was that's
what his audience wanted here that was
funnier that was more entertaining and I
don't think he should have pretended
that someone like Joe passed Joe best is
a different youtuber who's also vegan or
Semmy vegan or plant-based you know he
shouldn't have pretended that someone
like that was a credible source when he
wasn't Joe vegan knew very well the type
of lies that in the past the other Joe
Joe best had had published because Joe
had even Joe had even lied about Joe Joe
best had put up lies and defamation
against Joe vegan in the past which
Jovian was sensitive I pointed out those
things in my critiques of cheetah which
cheetah couldn't handle at all but back
in the day I was pointing out two
cheetah that one of his most important
failings was that he was treating
unreliable sources as if they were
reliable just to make a story more
dramatic or just to make it more
entertaining or just a pander to his
audience and again the ethics of
entertainment are here as much as the
ethics of journalism or the ethics of
politics or what have you even if you're
thinking about this just in terms of
fiction or entertainment or
what-have-you I mean because Joe vegan
did both he was doing kind of a news
reporting role as well as a satirist
role you got to think about these things
got to take him seriously but anyway I'm
gonna build something amazing in the
real world cheers bud it's how Joe vegan
closes that maybe maybe you are Joe but
you know one of the really productive
things I wanted to do with you was
engage you in a discussion about the
practicalities of how you were gonna
operate your you know animal sanctuary I
want to talk about the economics as well
as the ethics with you and I wanted to
have you on my channel do that to
promote you to my small audience but my
my audience is quite serious they really
care about that stuff they really
interested Europe that conversation
would have reached a few thousand of
really the right people and I don't know
Joe I I do not have any faith whatsoever
that you're gonna own and operate an
animal sanctuary and I don't have the
impression all that you've even thought
through let alone done a feasibility
study and really sketched out and dealt
with the complexities and difficulties
you've been faced you'd be facing and
doing that and I think even if you get
starred in that and I say this with all
due sympathy I think you're gonna face a
fork in the road at one point where you
have to choose between doing what's
right for your wife and child and doing
what's right for that dream you had of
running an animal sanctuary in Portugal
well it's a dream
but I think when you have to choose
between devoting your time and effort to
your wife and kid
and devoting your time and effort to
that dream a wife and kid are gonna take
priority every time and believe me I can
sympathize believe me I can relate
because those the conversations I have
to make too and that's one of the
reasons why I'm currently living in
China and learning Chinese and I'm not
living in Saskatchewan working on Korea
in a cheap way I'm not working in other
things that might matter to me more that
might contribute to my own career more
as well as my own personal interests
because I still have obligations to my
ex-wife and to my daughter growing up in
Europe so whatever man my heart goes out
to you Jo but your exit from YouTube the
one thing I can say is I hope this isn't
another fake retirement because we've
had a lot of that lately we've had
hennya
and many others saying dramatically that
they were gonna leave YouTube hennya
said that she felt her life was in
danger here on YouTube you know we have
no special effects we have no plot with
no drama
the only thing the only currency we've
got is our honesty so let's keep it real
you know if you're gonna quit YouTube
okay I sympathize it's a real story you
know you seem to be sharing real
emotions but now you got to actually
follow through you got to actually do it
you got to quit YouTube I'd say the same
to any or anyone else you know although
I mean you know otherwise we get into
again these kind of really phony
dramatic things that ultimately just
drag the name of veganism through the
mud and make this whole medium into a
joke I myself you know mentioned all the
time I don't have a lot to give but what
I do have to give is to you know come on
YouTube and share some of my real-life
experience some of my perspectives and
my opinions with a small number of
people want to hear it and that's the
realest thing in the game I'd be happy
still to this day to have you on my
channel to talk about running that
animal sanctuary talk about your dreams
under that heading
as I said recently I still got love for
you but um I think you just figured out
you know a few months too late what I
figured out a few months ago what I was
really trying to
constructively discuss with you and tell
you about what you were doing wrong
including you know how it was harming me
how it how it hurt me
I had the honesty to do that with you
and when it mattered you simply didn't
want to hear it because you get views
you get money on YouTube the first time
for someone like me on YouTube now get
subscribers get log
but isn't in alignment with who I am I'm
gonna take some time because I think our
community has been destroyed it isn't
right
you
I think of some way to get in after all
[Music]